Knowledge Shares (#634)
artsy/artsy.github.io: _posts/2020-12-10-share-your-knowledge.markdown

---
layout: epic

> title: "Share You a Knowledge for Great Good!"

Reviewer: Non-blocking: Heads up that I was hung up for a bit trying to understand the title. I get it now but it took me a little bit to figure out that it was intentionally poor grammar.

Author: I have a tendency to be clever in my titles and it gets me in trouble. I'll rephrase 👍

Let's go!

<!-- more -->

To my recollection, the Auctions team was the first at Artsy to start doing "Knowledge Share" meetings. It was late 2016, I think. We were a small team of about five engineers, but were spread across many different front-end apps and back-end microservices. To make sure Artsy's nascent auction business was a success, every engineer on the team had to have a working understanding of every one of our codebases. The team's lead, Alan, suggested that devote an hour each week to sharing knowledge so no one person would become a silo.

The idea is simple enough: spend time working on something together. Kind of like pair programming, but with a slightly bigger group. Maybe there would be a ticket someone had that we would start together. Or maybe there had been a production incident that we wanted to investigate together. Maybe someone had an idea for a new technical approach to some problem and they wanted early feedback. 

> I think this forum worked well for us because our team was small and had a high level of interpersonal trust. Leading a five-person pairing session could be really intimidating, and later I'll discuss how I've since structured the Knowledge Shares that I lead to make everyone feel welcome contributing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I think this forum worked well for us because our team was small and had a high level of interpersonal trust. Leading a five-person mobbing session could be really intimidating, and later I'll discuss how I've since structured the Knowledge Shares that I lead to make everyone feel welcome contributing.
```

Non-blocking: I don't know if it's truly "mob programming" by the book, but that feels more accurate than "pairing", given there are 5 people.

And they worked great! Other engineers learned about the iOS front-end code that I had written, and I learned about the back-end systems that powered that front-end. This was important for the team because our response time to production incidents was critical – one extra minute of looking up docs or finding a specific URL could make the difference between a happy user winning their lot, or an unhappy user taking their business elsewhere.

> As time went on, other product teams started their own Knowledge Shares. They proliferated naturally throughout Artsy Engineering. When I started the Mobile Experience team in 2019, Knowledge Shares were one of the first recurring team meetings I scheduled. After a few months, I got really positive feedback about them. In fact, engineers wanted more of them. So I scheduled a second hour-long Knowledge Shares each week.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As time went on, other product teams started their own Knowledge Shares. They proliferated naturally throughout Artsy Engineering. When I started the Mobile Experience team in 2019, Knowledge Shares were one of the first recurring team meetings I scheduled. After a few months, I got really positive feedback about them. In fact, engineers wanted more of them. So I scheduled a second hour-long Knowledge Share each week.
```

> Today, Knowledge Shares are for more than just engineers. They are for product managers, designers, data analysts, and other team stakeholders. Sometimes engineers from other teams even join my team's Knowledge Shares, but scheduling becomes a hassle at a certain scale. We start each Knowledge Share with team-wide topics that apply to more than only engineers; we then move on to engineering-specific topics. This lets non-engineers still contribute while also letting them drop off so the engineers can dig into code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Today, Knowledge Shares are for more than just engineers. They are for product managers, designers, data analysts, and other team stakeholders. Sometimes engineers from other teams even join my team's Knowledge Shares, though scheduling becomes a hassle at a certain scale. We start each Knowledge Share with team-wide topics that apply to more than only engineers; we then move on to engineering-specific topics. This lets non-engineers still contribute while also letting them drop off so the engineers can dig into code.
```

Non-blocking: I don't have anything to back this up, but "though" feels like a more appropriate conjunction here. "But" implies something completely adversarial to the point; "Though" implies something adjacent.

Here are some examples of things that we have used Knowledge Shares for:

- Sharing early designs for upcoming project work.
- Going over work-in-progress pull requests and soliciting feedback on the technical approach.
- Spiking on big-picture projects together, to help us plan what work needs to happen and in which order.
- Exploring anonymized user sessions to learn more about how our product actually gets used in the real world.
- Investigating small quality-of-life problems with our codebase's developer experience and working on solutions.

> - Brainstorming about how to address specific pieces of technical debt.

Reviewer: ❤️❤️❤️❤️ 

Thank you for the examples!!!

Topics range from the technical to the product-focused, from what has already shipped to what is still on the drawing board. This breadth of focus helps everyone on the team feel like they can contribute. We keep a shared document of evergreen topic ideas and everyone is encouraged to add to it. As Tech Lead, I also send Slack reminders before each meeting to solicit for timely topics.

> Throughout the normal course of our week, topics will naturally come up for discussion – topics that would normally need their own meeting to be scheduled. But instead, we can use the time we already have scheduled. For example: if an engineer has feedback on a new feature's design, we don't need to schedule a dedicated meeting for that conversation – we can use a Knowledge Share. It might feel like having recurring "Knowledge Share" meetings only adds more meetings to everyone's already-busy calendars. But in our experience, these Knowledge Shares prevent us from scheduling _yet more_ one-off meetings, so it balances out as a time-saver

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Throughout the normal course of our week, topics will naturally come up for discussion – topics that would normally need their own meeting to be scheduled. But instead, we can use the time we already have scheduled. For example: if an engineer has feedback on a new feature's design, we don't need to schedule a dedicated meeting for that conversation – we can use a Knowledge Share. It might feel like having recurring "Knowledge Share" meetings only adds more meetings to everyone's already-busy calendars. But in our experience, these Knowledge Shares prevent us from scheduling _yet more_ one-off meetings, so it balances out as a time-saver.
```

Adding a period, also I *love* this point about preventing us from scheduling *more* meetings.

> One trick I like to pull with Knowledge Shares is to use them to encourage the team's understanding that _learning_ is our paramount goal. That is to say, our goal isn't to _build_ some new feature, but is rather to _learn **how** to build_ that new feature. That's why I emphasize in our Knowledge Shares that _learning is contributing_ (language which I added to our engineering onboarding docs). New team members might not have topics of their own, but they're encouraged to contribute by learning and by asking questions.

Reviewer: Non-blocking: "One trick I like to pull" sounds slightly devious and manipulative to me. Is there a way to rephrase this to sound more like you aren't trying to fool us? 

Maybe something like: 

```suggestion
Knowledge Shares are a great opportunity to emphasize that _learning_ is our team's paramount goal. That is to say, our goal isn't to _build_ some new feature, but is rather to _learn **how** to build_ that new feature. That's why I emphasize in our Knowledge Shares that _learning is contributing_ (language which I added to our engineering onboarding docs). New team members might not have topics of their own, but they're encouraged to contribute by learning and by asking questions.
```

Reviewer: Also: "language which I added to our engineering onboarding docs" is a good opportunity to link to our onboarding docs.

Author: Sadly, that would be in the potential repo and is consequently closed-source. (The docs in question are a GitHub issue template for onboarding, and issues need to be closed, so our hands are tied a bit here.)

> When I described the origins of Knowledge Shares above, I said that they worked well on the early Auctions team because the team already had a high level of interpersonal trust. But looking back at those early days, I have to admit that I'm not sure which came first: the Knowledge Shares, or the trust? Having now bootstrapped two product teams at Artsy, I can tell you that Knowledge Shares are a key tool I use as Tech Lead to get teams working well together, quickly. I can't recommend them enough.

Reviewer: Non-blocking: I think there's an opportunity near the end of this paragraph to really drive the point about building trust. I don't have any suggestions, but if there's anything you could say before "I can't recommend them enough" about how knowledge shares promote trust, it would make this stronger.

(I noticed this/suggested it because I _personally_ reach for sentences like "I can't recommend them enough" when I want to be strong but feel like I don't have anything to back it up. That might not describe you, but if it does, I see you 🤗 )

Author: Ah, yes, great point. I'll re-word and link to a blog post I have on the subject of learning as a means to increase team trust: https://ashfurrow.com/blog/building-better-software-by-building-better-teams/

Today, Knowledge Shares at Artsy provide a variety of benefits. Among others, those benefits are:

- De-siloing information, to prevent any one engineer from becoming a single-point-of-failure for Artsy's systems.

> - Getting the team used to working together, used to communicating with one another, used to providing and accepting feedback.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Getting the team used to working together, used to communicating with one another, and used to providing and accepting feedback.
```

> - Surfacing problems developers commonly run into during day-to-day work – and the fixing them permanently, together.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Surfacing problems developers commonly run into during day-to-day work – and then fixing them permanently, together.
```

> - Fostering a sense that everyone "owns" this meeting (and, by extension, everyone "owns" the team's culture).

Reviewer: 💜

Okay, so, let's imagine I've sold you on the idea of Knowledge Shares. Great! So where do you start? How do you get your team on board? 

> Ideally, you _are_ the team's lead, in which case your job is quite easy: send your team this blog post, tell them you want to try Knowledge Shares, try them out, and discuss what everyone things in an upcoming retrospective. Whether you make the Knowledges Shares mandatory, or just encourage everyone's participation, is up to you. They are mandatory for engineers on my team, but I accept the responsibility of making sure the meetings providing value to all engineers. I trust you to make these work well for however your team works.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ideally, you _are_ the team's lead, in which case your job is quite easy: send your team this blog post, tell them you want to try Knowledge Shares, try them out, and discuss what everyone thinks in an upcoming retrospective. Whether you make the Knowledges Shares mandatory, or just encourage everyone's participation, is up to you. They are mandatory for engineers on my team, but I accept the responsibility of making sure the meetings are providing value to all engineers. I trust you to make these work well for however your team works.
```

> What if you're _not_ the team lead? If you're comfortable, I would recommend following the same steps as above. Send your team this blog post, express interest in trying out a weekly Knowledge Share, and schedule something. By showing this kind of leadership initiative, it won't be long before you find yourself leading your own team! But if you want to avoid stepping on toes, you can also discuss this with your team's lead privately. Every team is different and I trust you to navigate your own team best.

Reviewer: Totally non-blocking and kind of rambling:

I was slightly turned off by the phrasing of "Ideally, you _are_ the team's lead" - it triggered some shame in me. 

Thinking about how to rephrase it, I started to realize that I didn't agree with the premise that the team lead is the person that _should_ be responsible/capable of introducing Knowledge Shares (I saw later that you talked about showing leadership initiative, but not before I fought the shame monster). 

This probably isn't the kind of feedback you're looking for, so please feel free to disregard. If it inspires you to reconsider these closing paragraphs though, I do think there's room here to push harder on readers to lead even if "lead" isn't in their title.

Author: This is good feedback. I always think about how readers will feel after reading my posts and this feedback is really helpful 👍 You gave me the benefit of the doubt but others won't!
